Supply chains often involve many different intermediaries consolidating many different data sources to track goods from suppliers to consumers. Blockchain technology can simplify interactions between different stakeholders where every touch-point can be tracked and logged on a shared public ledger. 

Many industries and verticals rely on efficient supply chains. International shippers have adopted blockchain technology to monitor shipments and ensure containers are not tampered with. Any business relying on perishable goods being delivered in time can review the entire path tracked on a blockchain. Payment can be made once delivery is confirmed, when a smart contract initiates a transaction transferring funds. 

The benefits are self-evident for all parties involved. Enhanced transparency makes life easy for auditors. Any adverse conditions or mistreatment, whether intentional or unintentional, can be identified and mitigated. Continuing the theme of financial inclusion, those in the developing world have less intermediaries to pay.

This  solution can be replicated in many contexts where transparency and traceability is required. For example, the Cardano Foundation, in collaboration with Georgia’s National Wine Agency, and the Bolnisi Winemakers Association and Scantrust, created a solution on the Cardano blockchain to ensure the quality and authenticity of Georgian wine. 

Mohammad AlShamsi, Head of Firearms and Toolmarks Section of the Dubai Police, explained at the Cardano Summit 2023 how blockchain technology is helping combat organized crime by enabling shared, transparent data for tracing firearms across borders. 

Any process where there are disparate data sources can benefit from blockchain. Healthcare is an obvious candidate for such a solution as digital health records can be stored and shared with high security assurances. Advancements in Zero Knowledge and private smart contracts mean Healthcare information data management systems can potentially shield confidential information, while still availing of selective disclosure when necessary.

Hospitals today typically contain information siloed across different data systems. With the use of blockchain and decentralized identifiers (DID), patients and healthcare providers can control what they share and with whom. 
